 Zapp English vocabulary Level 2 Unit 9 Describing appearance This real English vocabulary podcast accompanies the e-book that you can download at zappenglish.com In this unit, you're going to learn how to describe what people look like and work on your pronunciation with these words and phrases. Vocabulary and listening, one. Listen to these descriptions. How many of the words or phrases for describing people do you know? Okay, Tom and I are describing ourselves. Great. How would you describe your appearance, Tom? Well, I'm not thin. I'm a medium built and I've got quite short hair, but it's getting longer. Probably almost medium length hair now. I've got quite fair skin, being from England. And I'm worried about going bald. He's not bald yet, but he doesn't worry about it. And you? Well, like you, I am also not thin. I would love to be lovely and slim, but unfortunately that's not true. I've got medium length, nearly long hair. My hair is sort of brownish, boring brown colour. I was blonde once in the past, but it looked terrible. I haven't got dark skin, but I wouldn't say I'm fair skinned. I think I go brown quite easily. And oh, and my hair, I forgot, is... It's not straight, it's a bit curly. Again, when I had my blonde hair, it was spiky, but not now. I had spiky hair when I was 12 or 13, as well. Big blonde spikes. Now I just have sort of a little bit curly brown hair that's going grey. Meaning and pronunciation 1. So let's check the words and phrases from the descriptions and work on pronunciation. Try and answer my questions and repeat after the beep. There are two ways to talk about the opposite of fat. One of them is a more positive way to say the opposite of fat. What is it? Slim. Slim. She's tall and slim. The other can sometimes be a little negative. What is it? Thin. Thin. She's looking really thin. I hope she's okay. There are lots of ways to describe people's hair. The description starts with, he or she's got. How many did you hear or can you think of? Here are some of them. He's got short hair. He's got short hair. She's got long hair. She's got long hair. She's got medium-length hair. She's got medium-length hair. What about hair that is like a yellow colour? She's got blonde hair. She's got blonde hair. What about a colour similar to blonde? Meaning light. But we can also use it to describe skin. Fair. There are two ways of saying this. He's fair-haired. He's fair-haired. He's got fair hair. He's got fair hair. She's fair-skinned. She's fair-skinned. She's got fair skin. She's got fair skin. What about the opposite to light? Dark. He's got dark hair. He's got dark hair. We can have straight hair. Or what's the opposite? Curly hair. He's got curly hair. He's got curly hair. She's got straight hair. She's got straight hair. If someone's hair sticks directly out from their head in points, we can say they have spiky hair. Stress on the first syllable. Spy. The second syllable is key. Spy-key. He's got spiky hair. And what about if someone has no hair on the top of their head? What do we call them? Balled. Listen. It's or. Balled. He's bald. Remember, some people might not like being called bald, so be careful with that one. For vocabulary and listening, too. Now listen to Claire talking about how people look. Which other words and phrases do you hear for describing someone? Well, I was just thinking about really the way people look and how it's actually really important to people, their physical appearance is very important to them. And for me also, I suppose, generally I'm very pale. And in the past, this used to be a problem. I used to think, oh, if only I was a tan, and oh, I'd love to be more tan. Now, it's not so much of a problem. I think you have to consider the risks to health and that, you know, to be tan, this has problems, potentially in later life. So I'm quite happy now to be pale. Okay, spots. Well, spots are a problem, aren't they? Spots have always been a problem in my life, from being a child and even through to now on the occasion, on an occasion getting a big spot on my chin or in a really, really uncomfortable place. Fortunately, I've never suffered with scars because of the spots. I know people that in the past have had a serious problem with spots, acne, in fact. And this has left them in later life with scars and some quite serious scars on their face. So I suppose I have to be thankful that it's never happened to me. I really don't like facial hair, moustaches, beards. It's just, I don't really understand the purpose of them. And they're not particularly for me, they're not attractive to look at. And, you know, especially if it's a boyfriend or a partner, it's not particularly pleasant if you're going to kiss them. And they scratch your face with their hair. For me, there's nothing nice about moustaches or beards. And if I could have my way, I would make both of them illegal. I would say that in terms of somebody's physical appearance, I always prefer somebody to be slim. Not really because of their body, particularly. More to do with lifestyle. I suppose I imagine that if somebody is slim, they have an active lifestyle, they really enjoy sports. And so this is generally the type of person that would appeal to me because they would have perhaps similar interest to me. In terms of whether or not they need to be muscular, it's not particularly important to me. I think it's nice that someone has, they have a few muscles. But I think it can be also quite unattractive if it's extreme. I would never want to be with a man that spends more time in the gym than with me. Meaning and vocabulary too. So now let's check and practice the words from those descriptions. Answer the questions, repeat after the beep. What's another way to say that someone is fat? Overweight. Remember, sometimes people don't like to talk about their weight. Fat is definitely rude and you should be very careful how you use it. Overweight is more polite, but you still need to be careful. Sometimes we use it with a bit to make it less strong. It's safer to use these words to talk about yourself than another person, unless you know them really well. I'm a bit overweight. I'm a bit overweight. Now for two words to talk about skin colour. The first one means someone's skin, especially on their face, is white. Maybe because they're scared or sick. Pale. Pale. Are you okay? You look very pale. The other one means brown, because a person has been in the sun. Tanned. Listen to the end sound, d, tanned. She's very tanned. Or we can also say, she's got a tan. You've got a good tan. Have you been on holiday? What do we call the red circles people can get on their face? We often get these when we're teenagers. British English, spots. American English, pimples. Again, be careful because it can be rude to talk about someone's spots or pimples. Spots. Pimples. I had lots of spots when I was a teenager. I can't go out tonight. I've got a terrible spot on my nose. Another thing we might see on the skin is a mark from when someone hurt themselves in the past. If I cut myself badly, the cut will get better, but it'll leave a scar. A scar. I've got a scar on my knee from when I fell over. Now for hair we find on faces, hopefully on the faces of men. What's the hair called that men can grow below their nose? A mustache. A mustache. He's got a mustache. And what about when the hair is also on the chin and sides of the face? A beard. A beard. He's got a beard. And finally, when a person is strong and they look strong, we can talk about their body and describe it by calling the person. Muscular. The end sound is a muscular. He's very muscular. That's great. Now you should be better at describing appearance and have got a bit better with your pronunciation. Well done. Remember, there are some extra tasks to help develop your vocabulary in the accompanying ebook from zappinglish.com. Thank you for listening. Bye!